#Chapter 1 of DOET

The 1st topic I found interesting was conceptual models. What I found interesting about conceptual models was the definition Norman gives and the examples of good and bad models. On page 25 Normal defines a conceptual model as, “An explanation, usually highly simplified, of how something works. It doesn’t have to be complete or even accurate as long as it is useful.” The last statement caught my attention. At first glance I didn’t really understand what he meant by it doesn’t have to be accurate as long as it is useful because I would think it should be accurate to be good. Then I thought about some examples in the real world where the conceptual models are not accurate but are useful in understanding what it is doing. 

An example I thought about is the apple watch. The apple watch has a physical button called the “digital crown.” You can click and turn the knob to interact with the screen. But technically there isn’t really anything spinning, it's all in code. I am wondering if this is an example of a conceptual model.



The second topic the discussion with affordances and the necessity of signifiers for Designers
I think I found it interesting because I found myself getting confused before reading this book because I heard the terms before but I used them in a wrong way. When I thought affordances were before, I thought they were elements on the screen(Buttons, images,etc.). But now reading it, I liked how Norman explains that affordances is a relationship between the object and the person. In the book in Chapter 1 page 11, Norman explains, “To be effective, affordances and anti-affordances have to be discoverable-perceivable.” This helped me reflect on what I thought was design because they made me aware of affordances I didn’t think were there.

One example I thought about was for a microwave. When you want to set the duration you can click on the number you want and it is translated into minutes. What I don’t like is it automatically turns on, but instead there is a button called “set time” and you are able to customize the timer.


Activity B.
The difference between good/bad mapping is that good mapping allowed the user to use the object with little/no thinking. Bad mapping is where the user has to second guess where they are. Examples are the control buttons in platforming games are mapped differently to fighting games.

The difference between good/bad feedback is that good feedback is clear, simple, and understandable. Bad feedback is overwhelming and confusing. To be effective at good feedback it has to be obvious where it is coming from. A good example is  Duolingo notifing you that you got it right.
